---
title: Thoughts, 3/2019
subtitle: 
published: 2020-03-10
modified: 2020-03-10
tags: links
---

<!-- Congrats! You've found the liner notes. -->

Starting a new chapter of my life in Durham, NC, I feel more adventurous. Like I'm coming out of a period of my life when I've had [little to say](https://holdenlee.wordpress.com/2015/03/23/the-grasshopper-king-jordan-ellenberg/). And of course, there's always the complication of things I *want* to say, but for professional reasons, cannot find a way to say. 
<!-- A crisis of self-confidence? A lack of a supporting figure? No use to speculate too much. --> 
<!-- if you want to know the real deal about grad school... email me.-->
<!--So really, it's more about reactions than summaries, links rather than explainers.-->

Reading [Wendi's blog](http://wendiyan.com/gap) has been transformative. It had a big impact on me. Honestly, it's been hard to read because it makes me think of roads I could have gone down but didn't, and that's also why it's so important for me to read. There was a time, long ago, when I did write my personal feelings in a public blog. And many times over the years I've thought about restarting it but never did. I'd set the bar too high. I didn't want to post anything unless it was high-quality. But the romantic idea of the blog that I want to go back to is that it's not just a smattering of information about topics, but really something that if you follow, you really get something of the person's soul. It's been so long since I was that kind of honest in public.

I'm making no promises about what I'll post in the future. But I do feel like I'm in a life state where I feel better about posting.

I want to share a few things from her blog that I loved. Go check it out!

...



<!-- A lot of what I've learned about life is from people younger than me. -->

<!--I hit the pause button on things in grad school, -->

<!-- it's important to set the tone. This is the tone I want to set. -->

I settled down for a month before I started exploring the area. Durham is a great place; there is a DIY feel to it. I am going to be collecting things to do in the area on [this page]().

Adventure is all in the attitude. So I decided I would somewhere new every week, even if it was just walking around town without much of a plan.

One thing I like a lot is interdisciplinary... I didn't get the feeling in Princeton.

(There's a vibrant science fiction and fantasy group on meetup, meeting once every two weeks at Atomic Empire. We were 25 people packed in a room. 3 people would read their work and we would go around giving bullet critiques: with one minute per person, there's not time for beating around the bush. It's a different style from the 3-minute ones I'm used to...

who submitted a story in the past two weeks? And who had a story accepted? Rejected? Good way to motivate people to submit.)

# Refresh

"... accrual" (Haruki Murakami) 

I feel that I've fallen into the bad habit of not being additive in the past few years. I can pin it down to the when I switched fields from number theory. I was kind of disillusioned with the idea of accrual: I wrote up several hundred pages of notes and felt like I was still so far from doing anything of substance. And I haven't learned things en masse with that thoroughness in years.

Kudos to [Snowflake]() guy.

# Film and Arts

(warning: spoilers)

I found about both Screen and Society and [] showings in a roundabout way through the Indie Film meetup.[^hl] [hl: One of the guys told me he had a college roommate named Holden Lee...] 

**幸福路 (On Happiness Road)** I LOVE THIS MOVIE! It's absolutely magical. 

**我三峽我愛你 (Three Parts Make a Whole)**: This movie is based on a book based on a real-life love triangle between Dong Jinhu, Liu Lili, and Wang Mei, who were all directors/actors. (In real life, Lili was a famous director who turned a lot of Qiong Yao's romance novels into films, Qiong Yao wrote the novel based on Lili's story, and they wanted to make it into a film but never did before Lili's death.) Dong Jinhu is a "rogue"; when he falls in love with someone he just forcibly takes all her belongings so they will move in with him.

Lili started out as godmother for Wang Mei's daughter Yazhuang - caring for her as if for her own child - before becoming Jinhu's lover. At first both Lili and Wang Mei are angry at Jinhu for cheating on them - especially Wang Mei for her children's sake, as he wasn't with her when her second child was born - but Wang Mei, seeing herself in Lili's shoes, invites her to move into the same house together. Wang Mei was an actress but gave up her career to become a housewife, while Lili gets into making movies with Jinhu and eventually a director herself.

The saddest part of the movie for me was when Lili became pregnant. She voices her worry that she will not love Wang Mei's children anymore, and that she is not "mother material," and what will she do about the child's registration? She gets an abortion without telling anyone.

So Lili and Wang Mei's lives diverge, Lili pursuing her artistic ambitions with Jinhu, and Wang Mei having a third child and spending her time on keeping the house. She feels sidelined at times but Lili keeps them all on equal terms. There was one scene near the end when Lili and Wang Mei were talking about who owed who, and they were counting using watermelon slices and kept pushing them on each other.

The film's sensibilities are very Chinese. It's much less scandalous than a Western film on the same topic would be, more about keeping a (nontraditional) family together, responsibility to children, growing old. I like it a lot. The Rubinstein Center has free artsy films every Thursday and Friday during the semester, and I plan to be a regular.

**For Sama**

**Once upon a time in Hollywood**

## AI + Art

# Adventures

sometimes, just walking around the city. 
Vegan restaurants.

## The Durham Scrap Exchange

I learned about it from Ingrid Daubechies's meeting on Mathemalchemy, a mathematical art exhibit that they're building this summer and I'm really excited to see. "What's the Durham Scrap exchange?" I ask. "It's a very Durham place, a magical place," Ingrid and Jonathan tell us. So I went to check it out that weekend.



Share Bear glows in the dark!!

## Mardi Gras

## Eno River State Park

Biking

# Podcasts

**Bus (99% Invisible)** 

how they have the potential to transform a city to be so much more pleasant and equal-opportunity. Yet Americans tend to view them as a mark of poverty - a movie scene would show the protagonist who's down on their luck riding the bus. It's quite different from the Asian attitude towards buses, where it just seems like an integral part of public life. Public transportation in the Triangle is sadly lacking. I'm not going to be going long distances, just walk some in the city.

**The Weather Machine (99% Invisible)**

**The Missing Hit (Reply All)**

**Two Heartbeats a Minute (Invisibilia)** 


<!-- -->

# Books

The Stone Sky

Travel Light - Part 1 was perfect. A princess raised to think she was a dragon? The perspective was delightful. I did think that the second half of the book wasn't as great. It veered into historical fiction without the grounding that I felt was necessary. (If you want that, pick up [Byzantium](https://holdenlee.wordpress.com/2015/03/08/byzantium/).)

Shantaram - This book is absolutely incredible. If books were judged by their ability to spur you to adventure this ranks tippy-top.
<!--For me the best kind of book is one that makes me feel more adventurous.-->


# Work 

<!-- Teaching takes a lot of time, even though I'm just teaching a class with seven students. But it lends a kind of rhythm and regularity, and it feels like I'm doing something useful when research isn't working out. It's nice to see familiar faces at office hours. The students call me "professor" and I haven't disabused them of the notion. I've been quite anxious about teaching and there were some classes where I made a bit of a mess of things. I felt like I had to toe the line at the beginning, give blackboard lectures theorem-proof style like the math lectures I've had, but actually there isn't anyone policing how I teach so I think I can experiment more. At the seminar on teaching someone mentioned a professor who would play music at the beginning of the class and the students gushed over it in the course evaluations. My favorite professor at MIT did that too. But I am too self-conscious about picking music:/-->